for us today we're going to be in
the book of luke chapter two keys
are in somewhere i think back in my pocket and
my coat over here in front of the black table
um anyway so we will begin luke chapter 2 starting
in verse 25. we have been walking through this
season of christmas um basically talking about
the season of praise the season of praise and
we got this from the multiple songs
that you'll find in the the book of luke
where there's different people who praise god
for what god was going to do through christ
coming to this earth and so as we walked through
that one of the things that we realized in this
season of christmas is we spend a lot of time
at christmas and i actually heard somebody say
this morning busy can anybody witness that busy
we're either busy shopping planning cleaning uh
something somebody named something else what
baking yes going to parties you name it right
and so at the end of all of it we tend to be
exhausted and it's like we love christmas um
and then we're kind of get through it we're like
oh in a way you almost like take a deep breath
well i think there's a different
way to look at christmas than to be
like overwhelmed and sometimes distracted by
those things and so you know i love christmas
um i love everything about it which means this
we don't get rid of tradition or we don't get
rid of the baking we actually enjoy all that
but there's a way to enjoy that by also making
the most important thing the most
important thing which is christmas
and i heard this statement the other day and it
made me really think about this and it made sense
having christmas without christ is like
having a birthday without the birthday
boy does that make sense having christmas
without christ is like having a birthday
without the birthday boy we just celebrated
teagan's birthday my daughter tegan is eight
we celebrated her birthday earlier this week and
she was eight and we were celebrating that with
a couple other friends that she had at great wolf
lodge and i started thinking through this you if
you've been to great watch anybody been a great
with lodge here locally it's great place to go
to i could have imagined myself having fun without
her present she's not in here but you know i could
have had fun me and brittany could have literally
went there and had fun at this place without her
but it would have been pretty funny if we
were going there purposely for her birthday
and she was never present we would have put the
candles in the birthday cake and we would have
lit them and she would have been there to blow
them out but you know who cares we had fun
so so hear what i'm trying to say about this
season we can have the season of christmas
i love everything about christmas but we can't
forget the season is about christ and why he
came so you heard about the christmas
program the children's christmas program
they got to talk about what is the season
it's a season of celebrating christ's birth
and so we're going to continue to talk that talk
through that this week as we conclude this series
over the season of praise but i want to kind
of catch you up we've spent walking through a
couple of different um people who had praised
jesus and one of those was mary that was two
weeks ago mary praised jesus whenever she had
realized that she was pregnant with god's son
and she praised jesus because she
recognized what god had done for her
what god had done for her people and what god
had actually done for everybody and so she had
the opportunity to praise god in that moment
knowing what god was doing through the birth
of jesus but then we moved to last week and we got
to see the angels praise and that was one of the
coolest things you see these three little sweet
little girls up here right glory to god in the
highest like that's the sweetest thing ever
right so i started imagining today as i seen
those three girls say glory to god in the highest
these angels came to some shepherds in the field
and they said glory to god in the highest right
peace has been brought to earth through jesus
and here's what we learned because of the
angel's praise it caused the shepherds to do
three things that caused the shepherds to go
see jesus it caused the shepherds to go tell
others what they saw once they saw jesus and it
caused the shepherds to go and praise god for what
they had seen see we learned last week in this
season of praise that we not only need to remember
what christ has done for everyone but we need to
tell others what christ has done for them as well
so how do we conclude the series this week we're
going to be talking about simeon and we're going
to be talking about his praise and what god had
revealed to him that he would see christ before
his death and that really we would get to have a
response the same way that simeon did is how are
we going to respond now that christ is here how
are we going to respond now that christ is here
and so let's jump into this text again luke
chapter 2 verses 25-35 i've asked joe to read
this week and joe if you don't mind just standing
up and reading from the book of luke for us
by the spirit
praise god
destiny
thanks joe let's take some time to pray lord
jesus we thank you so much for today lord and
what we've already got to experience through uh
the children's christmas program lord to remind
us of the story your story lord and so i just pray
as we lord open up your word and we talk about it
lord may each one of us leave here today change
because of it um and respond lord accordingly
uh lord how you would have us respond and
so we just pray this in your heavenly name
amen so just so you guys know and i'm always
gonna encourage you in this i meant to say this
before number one if you don't have a copy of
god's word uh there's two ways you can have it
because i always say always encourage people take
it with you wherever you go one of those is back
there on our next steps table we have a bible
for you um it's free gift to you if you want
to take it home study it read through it it's
yours the other is which is the my favorite way
because if i bring my bible with me wherever i
go i tend to leave it wherever i go anybody else
okay we inherit bibles around here because people
leave them uh so it's called the bible app i love
the holy bible app which is the you version bible
app you can download that on any platform i don't
even know what the platforms are but you know
what they are whatever your phone is i would
encourage you to download it and bring it with
you wherever you go because it is is so important
um but so so you know i want you to to know me
some of you don't even know who i am maybe you
haven't ever met me um but i am a practical person
which means this i could sit up here all day and
try to preach high end words that make no sense
to you but make sense to me because that makes
something somebody look good i'm not worried
about that as much as i'm saying hey i want to
teach you how i study the word which means
this i'm going to walk through this text
basically just pulling apart what we see in the
text and try to make it as simple as possible for
each one of us i don't know if you guys like that
or not i know i do because that's the only way i
can understand the word and so we're going to walk
through it that way in this text and the first
thing we see here is who the heck is simeon it's
a cool name anybody ever named their child simeon
okay good i can make fun of the name then i'm
joking so anyway simeon is an interesting name
but simeon as we know in this text is it says
that he is a righteous and devout man and so
i said okay what does this mean what is him
righteous and devout man it means he's in right
standing with god and he's deeply committed
to god's work and so we wonder why did god
allow simeon this opportunity because it says that
he was given the opportunity to see jesus before
his death why did he give him the opportunity
and i believe he gave him the opportunity because
he was a devout and righteous man because he was
seeking the lord and if you want to know and again
i'm going to have to stop myself consistently
from going off on tangents but if you want to know
and experience who god is be devout and follow god
as you follow him he will reveal himself more and
more to you and so that's what samia got to do
he got to experience this right so what was he
looking forward to and so we look here it says
he was looking forward to israel's consolation
i struggle with verbs and nouns and pronouns
and any of that stuff so i was like what does
consolation mean what does consolation mean so i
went and studied it i was like what is consolation
so what is it basically is this is where god has
promised to console his people because they have
been afflicted god has promised to console his
people because they've been afflicted well as
we begin to think through well what what have they
been afflicted for or from well it's that each one
of them uh have sins in their life that they have
really separated themselves from god because of
how they've lived and so god has come to console
them and so i want to kind of fill you in because
if we jump off into the store and we say okay
christ has come what happened before christ came
and again if you're anything like me you get
stuck in the middle of a story in about five
minutes happy you're going to check out and the
other five of you might fall asleep don't worry
we'll keep the lights dim enough where you won't
get caught um but so where did we start so in the
beginning this is where i'd love to start in the
beginning god created everything god created you
and me right and and we were his greatest
creation and see god walked with us in peace
in a perfect place right where there was no
sin at all and that was where god wanted to be
with people but something happened right the fall
this is where adam and eve sinned against god they
chose to listen to satan right to eat of the fruit
that they shouldn't have eaten of and you want to
say well man that's such a hard harsh reality
to to punish them to separate them from god but
here's what god is god is perfect and so god had
to separate man from him and so we had this time
period right after the fall of where man had law
right the god had given them the law to follow
after and they couldn't ever attain perfection
right it was only for a time that their sins
would be covered and so god had a perfect plan he
says hey you can't meet the expectation you're the
one that sinned but you can't meet the expectation
to be present with me in that relationship again
but i can so this is where we are in the story
god said i have a way to restore our relationship
so we're looking at restoration right so we have
the creation right the beginning and then we have
the fall and then now we have restoration which
is god restoring our relationship back to him
the only way he could do that is by sending
his son who could live a perfect life
who could be sinless and who could step into our
place see our sin separates us from god and if we
continue to live in that sin and we don't allow
god's son to replace us in that punishment that
we deserve we will die for our sins but jesus
stepped in to die for our sins so we see here
why would he be looking forward to the
consolation of his people he knew his
people desire to be saved from their sins
and he was getting ready to experience jesus
the one who would do that see i don't
know about you guys but that is a big
deal that is a big deal when we think about what
god did and why simeon would be so excited to
to see jesus right and so that's where we find
ourselves in this story right simeon was waiting
for god to rescue his people and it had been
revealed to him that he would see god before
before see jesus before the end of his life and
so this is the season where i think of christmas
right god has showed us in the christmas
season that he has fulfilled this promise
to send his son jesus to give us the gift
of salvation so we have a reason to praise
so let me read this let me read the next couple
of texts that we can kind of see so we see
obviously god's promise and then we see his
promise fulfilled so verses 27 on says god
guided us to me um guided by the spirit he entered
the temple and when the the parents brought in the
child jesus to the perform him for him what was
customary under the law simeon took him up in
his arms and praised god and said now master
you can dismiss your servant in peace as you
promised for my eyes have seen your salvation you
have prepared it in the presence of all people a
light for revelation to the gentiles and glory
to your people israel so we see god promised
again to fulfill this promise through jesus what
was simeon's response it was to praise god it was
to praise god so i want to ask this question
usually i ask a lot more questions today i'm
probably going to be a little bit less but i asked
this question how many of y'all have ever prayed
for something it came true god answered it and you
forgot to praise him and thank him for it anybody
i'm glad i'm the only one of the few thank you the
rest y'all are lying lying okay you know you've
thrown up one of those hail mary prayers please
god please god god answers it and we forget to
thank god right i look at christmas this way and
we we go into the christmas season charging after
the season of fun and excitement and gifts and
parties and everything else the decorations
but do do you sometimes forget to praise god for
this season that he actually sent god through his
son jesus to reconcile us back to him like that's
a big deal y'all because apart from god doing that
one day each one of us will stand before god and
we will be judged according to the way we've lived
and we have one of two choices to
be judged by god on our own account
or for jesus to step in and say no that
debt is paid see jesus coming is a big deal
and when god does something so big like simeon
saul he saw jesus in his hands he praised god and
we should praise god during the season as well so
as he's guided by the spirit right to go and see
jesus and the parents obviously brought them in
um what happened right what happened well we see
here with with simeon is that the bigger the gift
the bigger the praise right um there's been times
where i've gotten a shirt for christmas and i'm
like yay thank you so much and it probably doesn't
even fit um but then there's times where somebody
has blessed my socks off there was one year we
actually had received about 500 in the mail and i
was like oh my gosh like that's a big deal and i
wanted to know who it was they didn't they didn't
address it and i didn't get to say thank you but
i got to say thank you to god so i look at those
two things to say the bigger the thing the bigger
the praise right the bigger the gift the bigger
the praise and so what was simeon's response when
we look at this and i want us to look at verse 30
it says he says for my eyes have seen salvation
so first we see what god was actually doing
through sending jesus was simeon recognized
that he had experienced salvation himself that he
had physically got to see salvation in his hands
but simeon wasn't done he began to look at verse
31 and 32 where he says you have prepared it not
only for me but you prepared it in the presence
of all people a light for a revelation to the
gentiles and the glory to your people from israel
and so you kind of know this if you're a little
bit new to the word um gentiles are basically
anybody else that is not jews which was god's
original people when you when you go back to
the old testament and through abraham and again
there's a long story there you can talk to me
about it after we can look at it together but
there's two different people right and so he says
this is for all people the gentiles and the jews
it's everyone together this is for everyone and so
i started thinking about this in verse 29 he says
now master can you dismiss your servant in peace
as you had promised why could simeon go in peace
why could simeon go in peace i started thinking
about this and i kept asking myself this question
you know sometimes some of us when we think about
death is this a scary thing and so you know i
don't want to die either it is scary but simeon
had a peace as saying hey lord you can take me now
because i've seen jesus and i heard this
this quote from warren weirsby he said this
god's people are not afraid of death because it
only frees them from the burdens of this life
and leads them into the blessings of the next
life see i don't know about you guys i have
burdens on my life i enjoy this life i enjoy
my family there's a lot of great and amazing
things but there are certain things in my life
that i pray i don't have to experience one day
in eternity and that's death and suffering
and sorrow and can i can i get a witness pain
i mean i'm still young but i'm still aching when i
get out of bed so i mean i want to get rid of that
so all these things will be removed
so he could celebrate and praise god
because he knew that when he died he
had seen and experienced salvation
so simeon's response was again to accept god's
promise that he had given him right to to save
him from his sins and from everyone's sins
what should our response be that's what i
saw in this text what should our response be we
see simeon's was god had promised him something
he had experienced it and praised god and again
the bigger the gift the bigger the praise but
then there's a response what is our response what
was what was adam uh what was joseph's and mary's
response and so let's look at this in verse 33
it says his father and mother speaking of jesus
father and mother were amazed at what was being
said about him and i asked myself this question
are we as amazed as joseph and mary were at what
simeon was saying and what they were experiencing
see i think we should be amazed at what
god has done through jesus but then we see
what he describes the response of many right
simeon describes a response that many will be
this is in verses 34 and 35. he says then simeon
blessed them and told his mother mary indeed this
child is destined to cause the fall and the rise
of many in israel and to be assigned to those who
will be opposed and a sword will be pierce your
own soul and that the thoughts of many hearts
may be revealed so we know this that the response
of many will be the rise and the fall of them
some will reject and some will accept and i think
about this every person on this earth has a choice
this is what i love about god i love about
god that he actually gives me the choice
and if if any of y'all are married
does anybody like being told what to do
not me good i didn't see anybody do that nobody
likes being told what to do and this is what
i love about god he's not telling you you have
to accept him it's your choice it's your choice
but here's the thing it's also
your choice of what you'll receive
and so in this this time simeon knew there was
going to be some that would rise and accept christ
just like him and there would be some that would
fall that would refuse and reject who are those
that accept we've been talking about this a
lot over the last couple months it's those who
recognize their need who recognize they can't live
this life apart from christ that they cannot live
and die in a way that would honor god that would
actually even allow them to spend eternity with
god and so because they understand their need for
god they're the ones that will receive this those
who are prideful who are do it yourself i can
figure this out i can be as good as possible as
long as i'm at least 51 good i'll be good enough
and god's going to say that's never good enough
see all of us want to try that and i've tried it
and i want to share this a little bit with you my
salvation story i want to be brief with this but
my salvation story is this i spent the majority of
my life one actually i had i kind of grew up
in a little bit of a church setting and then
some major things happened that caused me to hate
god for a long time for a long time and whenever
i got invited to go to church i went to church
because i had had my first daughter and i was
like i got to figure this thing out and i spent
the whole year trying to get right which means
this i tried eliminating everything and every
time i eliminated it i picked it back up because
it just wasn't working and it finally came to
this point where i'm never going to be good enough
and then i heard one day god said you're right
but i am and it was that moment a year later after
spending time in church that i finally said lord
i'm never going to be good enough but you are.
so what happened i gave my life to christ and
it wasn't like poof like everything was great
but one step one more day one more day to get to
know the lord and hit receive his mercy grace and
everything else allowed me to experience what i
experienced today which i'm a pastor today doesn't
mean everybody's gonna be a pastor right but
what i would say is this god has changed my life
completely because i came broken not
prideful so simeon recognizes this right
so each one of us i mentioned this earlier
each one of us will stand before god right
and our sins will be listed out and one of
two things are going to happen is that judge
is together going to say hey i'm going
to judge you according to your own sins
and you'll spend eternity separated from me in a
place called hell or jesus will step in and say
i took his or her spot on the cross and died
in their place and their sin is paid in full
i don't want you to miss this either i spent a lot
of time as i was in church and when i was out of
churches it seemed like only thing that people
would talk to me about is heaven and hell and
let me let me be clear we need to to make sure we
understand where we're going when we meet eternity
but i think the blessing that too many people
miss talking about is this blessing that god
gives you now see when you accept christ
when you choose to say hey lord i need you
you get to experience salvation
and god now until you meet eternity
and those of you in the room i mean i i don't
know you're probably similar to me if you've
lived any part of your life with christ it is way
better than your life was apart from christ amen
i've said this so many times my best day as a as
a person who didn't follow christ is still worse
than my worst day as a follower of christ and i'm
going to say this again so it's a little bit clear
my best day as an unbeliever is still worse
than my worst day as a believer why because
the presence of god has been with me in the midst
of that worst day as a believer and his presence
is way more important his peace his comfort his
forgiveness his grace his mercy everything that
i needed in those worst moments were way better
than the best moments i had as an unbeliever
every one of us will spend eternity somewhere but
also every one of us will spend the rest of our
lives with or without god and i'll tell you this
i want to be as honest as i can i'm not selling
anything i'm being real it has changed my life
and that's why i stand here every week because
i wanted to change yours i wanted to change yours
it's so important that we do not miss that this
side of heaven so as we conclude this series
there's just a couple things i want to mention
i hope that if you haven't heard
anything from me today that number one
that you remember this season is a season to give
god praise that our awe of the season does not
take place of our all of christ and i'll say that
again i pray that this series has challenged you
to remember christ that the all of the season
has not taken presence over the all of christ
because he is worthy to be praised during
the season what jesus has done is amazing
right but the question is how are we going
to respond i started thinking through this um
you know something can be amazing from a
distance and i started thinking this about
this story you know you may be sitting in this
message maybe this is the first time you've heard
the message of christ maybe it's the hundredth
time but the message seems good from a distance
but the true blessing is when you experience it
and so you all know i'm kind of a foodie and i
love love some chocolate ice cream with some nuts
on it and i started thinking through this you know
i've kind of been trying to eat healthier lately
and i've been to a couple places where there was
ice cream my kids actually got ice cream this week
and they they like loaded up the ice cream with
all these things and it looks so good but i missed
out on the blessing because i didn't eat any of it
i know you're wondering where am i going with this
guys today to receive the full blessing that god
has for you the life change the peace the mercy
the grace everything that i've been talking about
you can't receive that from a distance you've got
to experience it personally you've got to taste
and see that the lord is good and he is from
personal experience from personal experience
he is amazing so the best part of christmas is to
receive what jesus came to give us grace hope and
mercy forgiveness of our sins and a relationship
with him let me tell you what it cost you nothing
now some of us will say no you've got to sacrifice
and trust me i'm not talking about that it costs
you nothing because christ did everything christ
did everything on the cross to meet you where you
are it cost you nothing it cost him everything
how do you receive it by confessing your need
for god and asking god to forgive you for your
sins and to turn your life over him to take a
step forward you don't have to know everything you
just have to know the most important thing jesus
and your need for him so this time as we have a
time of invitation we always have this time of
invitation at the end of service i think too many
times at churches we don't explain it very well
and i want to explain it as clear as possible
we have invitation for us to take time to say
god what have you taught me today so you may be
saying hey ben your message spoke nothing to me
but what the kids did spoke to me reflect on
that maybe it was the music maybe god spoke
to you through the music reflect on that maybe
god did speak to you through the message reflect
on that this is a time to say god what are you
speaking to me about because i promise you this
every one of you are here for a defined reason now
you may say i came to see a grandchild or a child
singing this you're right you did but god met
you here to say you are here for a purpose to
speak to you so what is the response that you
have to respond to and here's just a couple of
scenarios that it could be that god's leading
you to for some of us it could be to make sure
that during this season you make christ the center
of it you may say hey but we're we're 19 days in
i've missed it nope you still got plenty of
time and really after christmas is over you
still systemati should make christ center so maybe
this is during this time you consider and say lord
no i'm a believer i've followed you
but i've been distracted and maybe
this is the time you surrender that
for some of us it's to praise god more
we forget how many blessings we have if you want
to know what god's done for you start writing down
everything you got to do today you woke up
you have a house now you may say you did that
god gave you the breath and the ability to
do it so you better say thank you for it
right so maybe today it's to reflect and say
lord i need to give you praise for these things
but for some of us for some of us it's a time
to accept what christ did on the cross why we
are here for this season of christmas christ
came to give you life eternally and life now
more abundantly than you have ever experienced
in your life i love if you know me as a pastor
i'm bad at quoting scripture to a t but i'm good
at quoting scripture because god's just put it
on my heart right so god has given us exceedingly
abundantly more exceedingly abundantly more than
we could ask or think according to him who works
in us god desires to do that through your life
as a church if you don't know us at all inspiring
hope exists to inspire hope in your life
by helping you discover god's purpose for
your life through a relationship with jesus
what does that mean we believe this every person
in this room has a purpose divine from god
for you to fulfill and it comes
through a relationship with jesus
so here's my challenge to you as we take time
to reflect and this is what's going to happen
brock's going to play lightly we're going
to be able to bow our heads and just pray
and meet with the lord but as we reflect
on what god is teaching us through today's
message i challenge you to respond don't leave
here before you commit to something to praise
to make christ center or to give your life to
jesus and this is what i do every week i stand
in the back during this time of reflection i stand
in the time in the back because i don't want you
to sit here going i have questions and i don't
know where to go that's where you can go come talk
to me i want to talk with you about what questions
you have from this message what it means to
give your life to christ come see me but i'll
challenge you to this you have one life to live
one life to live and you only get to live at once
i challenge you to live it with christ at the
center so let's pray lord jesus we love you lord
god you're good your word reminds us lord through
simeon that you promised to send your son jesus
and lord this is a season to remember that
you did it you fulfilled your promise lord
we give you praise for that we thank you for
that because apart from christ coming to this
earth and dying in our place
we would be lost and hopeless
but you have given us hope during this
season you've given us the ability to receive
grace and mercy and forgiveness of our sins and
a new relationship with you lord that is restored
or that's the part of the gospel that i think we
so much miss as we are restored in you back to the
original relationship that you designed peace with
you wow lord i pray that there if there is people
in this room lord that don't know you i pray
that they come to faith in you and lord that they
they give their lives to you lord i pray
that they during this time of reflection
lord that they will just step out lord and come
to the back and say hey ben i've got questions
lord if it's even not that lord i pray that at
the next table after service they come up and they
say ben i've got questions lord that today they
don't leave before they give their life to you
lord i pray that you move in mighty ways and
every one of our life's lord that we leave out
of here changed because god you have a plan for
us to fulfill this side of heaven and i pray that
every one of us is a part of it and so lord we
just pray this in your heavenly name amen amen
you